---
layout: post
title: Setting a Vision
---

We have a series of internal classes at Optoro called _Managing at Optoro_.
It's a great way for us to be able to promote talent into a leadership role and
make sure they have the tools they need to be successful.

The class I teach is called "Setting a Vision" and it's something I think about
a lot.

I'm teaching the class later today. I generally hold an interactive discussion
session, but I thought I might share some of my notes.

### Vision = context = framing

Why is a vision important? I think vision is the essence of leadership. It _is_
fundamentally leadership, and one of the most important things a leader can do.
Vision provides direction, and without it teams wander from place to place,
effectively going nowhere.

Imagine you get on the road and start driving. You take whatever roads look
interesting, and find fun along the way. But you're not _going_ somewhere.

Vision provides context to the team on why this, why now, why not anything
else. Context helps the team be successful, solve problems better, put
themselves in the big picture. Vision frames decisions made and decisions to
make. We're able to move towards our vision because we have one.

### Connectedness, big picture, understanding

When you have multiple teams working together to achieve something, a clear
vision gives them a shared identity and shared purpose. Teams understand their
part in the organization. They can connect their actions to the whole.

We work better and produce better things when we understand how our piece fits.
We can all help each other better when we can see where we're going.

### Setting vision

Think about where you want to be. Imagine your team, your company, yourself in
2, 3, 5, and 10 years. You don't have to do all of them, but the more you can
do the more complete and connected a vision you'll have. What are you doing
then? What have you accomplished? What tools are you using, or products have
you built, or challenges have you overcome? Don't worry about how - just where
you want to be. Now that you have an idea, is it crazy? Good! Crazy goals can
be motivating. But is it impossible? Maybe dial it back a little.

Write it down. It doesn't have to be complicated, but paint the picture of the
future as best you can. It can be in words, pictures, whatever - just get it in
a format you can share with others.

Then share your vision with your team. Start with someone you trust to be
honest and helpful. Listen, change your vision. Refine it. Then share it with
everyone.

### Good vision is not 100% definite, accepting of change

It's hubris to assume a leader can see the future perfectly. Therefore we must
accept that our visions are imperfect, incomplete, and subject to change. That
doesn't give us an excuse not to set one, but rather we should remain humble
and accept that new information can change our course. We should always look
for opportunities to learn more and revise our vision, and we should share that
truth with our teams so they understand that we are human too and realistic and
pragmatic.

### Sharing vision: do it all the time.

Repeat yourself over and over. Always connect what we're doing now to where
we're going. Take every opportunity to bring your vision back to the table and
use it to reframe what we're doing to support it. Repeating feels silly but
most people don't really hear you until they've heard it many, many times. Take
the opportunity!

We all go through hard times, slogs, crunch time, etc. Understanding that this
is part of a bigger thing helps people work through it. Remind them all the
time.

My teams sometimes during standup will play a little game. Instead of just
sharing what's up today (and blockers, etc), team members will share what
they're doing and then take a moment to connect the dots between their work and
our company's goals. A simple for example: "I'm building this feature so that
we can take it to market and make money." It doesn't take much, but it can help
connect the dots.

### Include your team

Finally, remember to include your team in your process to set and adjust your
vision as it changes. Demonstrate that you are also capable of change. Listen
to your team and your team will listen to you.
