---
layout: post
title: Notes on Growth
---

## Growth

[Optoro][1] has grown a lot over the last 5 years. I was the first engineer
hired, the first professional manager, indeed the first corporate hire. At the
time we were around 12 people in all, now we have around 250, plus somewhere
between 100 and 200 contract / temp resources, and numerous people our clients
pay in their own facilities to implement our processes and use our software.
Tech has grown from just myself to just about 60. Needless to say it's been a
wild ride.

Our company has changed quite a lot during that time. This post is about how
that growth has affected how we structure the technology department and what
we're trying now. The only absolute truth I've learned along the way is that
every context brings new challenges to solve. The structures we've used haev
fit those problems more or less, and while I hope you gain some insight from
reading this I'm sure your own context is different in important ways so your
own solutions will be your own.

## Early Phase

When I initially joined we started by working with the talented team over at
InfoEther. We worked with them for a year until they were acquired by
LivingSocial to kick off their rapid growth on their engineering side. By the
end of that first year we'd made our first engineering hire beyond me, and I'm
happy to say that person is still with us to this day.

With a small team (4-5 InfoEther plus 1-2 Optoro), we operated as one cohesive
unit. We applied simple Agile practices (Scrum mostly), involed our
stakeholders deeply (the original founders of Optoro), and delivered small
increments of work with regular demos. We were able to change our solutions to
meet the need quickly and quickly produced code that got the business off the
ground. By the end of that year we launched OptiTurn, our core product, and
began to use it in our warehouse.

## Small team

In January of 2011, InfoEther left our project (and was acquired by
LivingSocial). We took the project fully in-house and increased our staff up to 6.
We stayed at that size until halfway through 2013.

As we didn't meaningfully change in size or team construction, our process
continued to work well. We continued to be productive and effective.

## Rapid Growth

By mid 2013 our clients started to use OptiTurn in their own facilities. We
proved the market need, that our solution fit it, and that we could deliver
high quality results for retailers with returned and excess inventory. This
attracted the interest of several investors, so by July of 2013, Revolution led
our series B round and we raised almost $25M in funding. That funding allowed
us to step back, look at the breadth of our vision, and begin to implement it
in earnest.

For the tech team, this meant we could start hiring beyond our small team, so
over the next year and a half we grew from 6 to over 40.

## Growth == Chaos

By the end of 2014, we had expanded beyond just developers and one UX designer
into five separate departments: Development, DevOps, UIX (design), QA, and
Product. We grew our staff, however, as if it were one team still. Without
structural refinement, each individual person would get pulled into projects
that came up. We would create teams from time to time for initiatives, but as
soon as the thing was 'launched,' or as soon as we needed that resource for
something else, we would pull people and reassign them to other project teams.
This often left projects with just one person to complete the final 10-20% of
the project, which is inevitably the hardest part. I'm sad to say that due to
my lack of vision in team structure we almost lost two or three very effective
people. Luckily I had hired an excellent Director of Development by this point
and he wisely noticed the problem and recommended a solution.

At the time our solution was to create teams that would stick together for long periods of time. These teams would take projects from across the organization and see them through to completion.

Proved out concept, secured investment, moved to DC, started hiring quickly.

Hired VP/Product, started growing that

At some point we had a bunch of people but no teams. That was flexible but chaotic and people wouldn't finish projects. Things would die on the vine continuously.

We added teams but the teams took projects. This was the right need at the time because we had too few people supporting too many things and we didn't plan well into the future. We were still very reactive.
We expected collective ownership but got very little ownership.

Now we're moving to product-focused teams with a portfolio they own

Expectations of an owner: they care for the thing. they have authority over it. they have incentive to improve it
